Dianna Jaramillo: Thing here.
Dianna Jaramillo: Stop. Okay. Sorry about that.
Dominique Pozo: Hey, we made it
Dianna Jaramillo: We finally did it, we finally made it.
Dianna Jaramillo: Hurry Philly.
Dominique Pozo: I
Dominique Pozo: Can better, more on me.
Dominique Pozo: When I'm
Dianna Jaramillo: Back on Track now. Oh, good. Okay. Good. Awesome. Your sound I can come in and out.
Dominique Pozo: Okay, let me know if that continues, I might have to move outside where there's different reception, we see
Dianna Jaramillo: Oh, I see. Okay.
Dianna Jaramillo: Good.
Dominique Pozo: So, can you hear me. Am I clear
Dianna Jaramillo: Yes, we are here sounding better
Dominique Pozo: Okay, great. So how's it going, How's it going, been in the program. How's the group working for you.
Dianna Jaramillo: It's awesome. I really, really like it. I like the group a lot. I really like Dr. Ken doll a whole lot and
Dianna Jaramillo: He died in been
Dianna Jaramillo: Just stable and I'm good. Everything's been good, they're
Dominique Pozo: Good and
Dominique Pozo: How about what, what would you like to be getting out of our sessions and let's um let's kind of talk about what what you would like this work together to look like and
Dianna Jaramillo: I don't know, I feel like she's there's, there's a lot of stuff I
Dianna Jaramillo: I feel like I have a whole lot of stuff you know like
Dianna Jaramillo: Just everything I'm
Dianna Jaramillo: Like with my mom and just the way things are now things are hard like really, really hard now.
Dianna Jaramillo: That I'm not, I'm not working. And, you know, all of that stuff not having like now I don't have the vehicle make my boyfriend has the vehicle and
Dianna Jaramillo: And, you know, he takes me to do whatever I need to do. But it's scary living out in a rural area, like I do, and having to look at getting a job.
Dianna Jaramillo: And not having a vehicle and having to go all the way to Santa Fe to work and not having a vehicle and and then he works. And so it's that part's really scary to you know
Dianna Jaramillo: So I don't know what I'm going to do.
Dominique Pozo: Or do you have a license. Can you drive
Dianna Jaramillo: Yeah yeah
Dominique Pozo: Yeah, eventually. Is that something you want eventually to get a car.
Dianna Jaramillo: Oh yeah, definitely. Yeah. My, my, I had my really beautiful terrain. But when I left my mom's she kept it because it was it was up. She was the main person on it.
Dianna Jaramillo: And so she just took it away from me and you know so i and i haven't added vehicle since then. And that was almost a year ago, I guess.
Dominique Pozo: I mean things I'm hearing one are just wanting some autonomy and also you
Dominique Pozo: Also your safety, you know, just being able to know that you're that you have this in case you need to get out of, you know, this rural location for whatever reason.
Dianna Jaramillo: Yeah. Yeah, definitely.
Dianna Jaramillo: Yeah, yeah. There's the Jesus so much. I mean,
Dianna Jaramillo: Even like us, this House that we're in, um, we've stayed here because so my boyfriend doesn't really work in the wintertime, because you know it's cold, and he's, he does a lot of contractor type stuff. And, um,
Dianna Jaramillo: But we stay here because the landlord. He's real understanding you know he's really nice and he's, he doesn't push us for further and when he knows. Neither one of us are working or anything.
Dianna Jaramillo: But this house is just falling apart. It's awful. You know, so that's that's a huge a huge issue to and we would like to get out of here and get to Santa Fe and everything, but
Dianna Jaramillo: It's just so expensive, and everything's just really scary right now. I don't think I've ever been scared.
Dominique Pozo: What what areas are you're not scared and I want to, I totally don't want to dismiss the fear and the vulnerabilities that you're feeling. But I also want to know for my own understanding what areas you feel
Dianna Jaramillo: I think honestly like the main area that I'm not scared. Early in his lake with my sobriety my recovery.
Dianna Jaramillo: Area. I'm not scared.
I'm not scared.
Dominique Pozo: Huge
Dianna Jaramillo: Yeah.
Dominique Pozo: And I just want to encourage you and let's just take a moment and maybe drop out of the head and let these feelings come out because it's, you know, this is the place and time to let it move through and give these parts space.
Yeah.
Dianna Jaramillo: Yeah.
Dominique Pozo: And I could be totally wrong. I could be wrong. Please tell me that doesn't sound true at all. But as you're speaking I just I just gotten a sense of like a young child like
Dominique Pozo: I'm scared. And I don't. Whatever, I don't feel safe or this house is falling apart, you feel scared and and I wonder if you if any of that rings true like How old is that scared little one.
Dianna Jaramillo: Helpless and young
Dominique Pozo: Yeah, so I think this watching some deeper
Dianna Jaramillo: Yeah it is, for sure. Yeah.
Dianna Jaramillo: Yeah, definitely. I mean, just a think.
Dianna Jaramillo: Not having my mom is a really big thing that she just
Dianna Jaramillo: She just doesn't care about me anymore. You know, like she just gave up button. And that's, that's something that she's done before.
Dianna Jaramillo: When I made a mistake or when i when i you know was using years ago, you know, eight, eight or so years ago when I was using she would just totally turned her back on me. She wouldn't try to help me or
Dianna Jaramillo: You know, trying anything she would just turn it back on me and stop talking to me and that's exactly what she's doing now. And so it really
Dianna Jaramillo: brings all that back.
Dianna Jaramillo: You know, I just
Dianna Jaramillo: Yeah, it's like all sorts of trauma all over again.
Dominique Pozo: Well, that's what I'm sensing is the, you know,
Dominique Pozo: Missing that security, you know that secure attachment to
Dianna Jaramillo: You know,
Dominique Pozo: It's like mother is the nurturing like embrace that that holds us when we're scared so
Dominique Pozo: I cannot really hitting
The signal.
Dianna Jaramillo: Yeah.
Dianna Jaramillo: Oh, definitely.
Dominique Pozo: So let's take a moment and rub your hands together like this.
Dianna Jaramillo: And move it.
Dianna Jaramillo: He's such a Yeah she does.
Dominique Pozo: Or she she totally is.
Tuning India.
Dominique Pozo: Just feel that warmth and, you know, large and that fire energy
Dominique Pozo: Creating a little one.
Here.
Dominique Pozo: And then wherever you feel
Dominique Pozo: Moved to place your hands to place them.
Dominique Pozo: On whatever part of you feels great.
Dominique Pozo: My hunger my chest and my belly. But whatever feels good. Maybe it's on your
Here.
Dianna Jaramillo: And just
Dominique Pozo: If you can just tune into the part of view that is is taking care of you, you know, no matter how scared you are. There's the warm up. So let's hear saying, I know it's hard, and we're going to be okay. I don't know what it looks like, yet, but we're going to be okay.
Dominique Pozo: Or whatever your words are
Yeah.
Dominique Pozo: What are you exactly
Dominique Pozo: What are your words like what would you tell yourself to soothe yourself.
Dianna Jaramillo: It's okay. I tell myself. It's okay. Probably 1000 times a day, and you say it's okay it's gonna be okay. It's gonna be okay, you're okay. We're okay.
Dominique Pozo: Do
Dominique Pozo: You believe it.
Dianna Jaramillo: Yeah, mostly
Dianna Jaramillo: Mostly believe it. I mean, you know, it always has been in the past, even when Things have been scary in the pastor
Dianna Jaramillo: You know, it always is. It's always okay and I'm I've always survived. I'm always
Dianna Jaramillo: I've always gotten through it and lived and survived and things have gotten better and in also. I mean I it's
Dianna Jaramillo: I believe that now to mostly
Dianna Jaramillo: Nothing. Yeah.
Dianna Jaramillo: It's just, I don't think that I've ever been in this position that I'm in right now with nothing and also been sober.
Uh huh.
Dianna Jaramillo: You know, so that's like
Dianna Jaramillo: I just didn't care before as much
Dianna Jaramillo: And so I didn't, you know, I mean, I could just know myself. I could just be numb and
Dianna Jaramillo: And just sort of float through each day and I'm not doing that. No in and I don't want to do that. No.
Dianna Jaramillo: You know, so
Dianna Jaramillo: I don't know. I mean, I don't know, it's just so scary not knowing just not knowing what's going to happen, you know, or
Dianna Jaramillo: Where I'll end up or
Dianna Jaramillo: Just the not knowing is so scary.
Dominique Pozo: Well, I just want to validate and actually celebrate
That you're
Dominique Pozo: You ever heard of that, that, that theme, the window of tolerance before
Dianna Jaramillo: Yeah.
Dominique Pozo: So,
Dominique Pozo: You know, I think.
Dominique Pozo: When a person is actively using their tolerance is so tiny for just
Dominique Pozo: They just can't handle the discomfort. So I'm going to go drink or smoke or your shoot up or whatever, whatever people choose to do tend to numb this thing. And so by
Dominique Pozo: By feeling how uncomfortable because it's not comfortable to be scared and to not know it takes a lot of
Dominique Pozo: Trust and whatever other things, you know, you call upon
Dominique Pozo: Feel
Dominique Pozo: That some faith in
Dominique Pozo: In the unknown.
Dominique Pozo: That starts to grow that window of tolerance which is
Dominique Pozo: Which
What's the word
Dominique Pozo: It's such a skill to have. As we move through life because life is not comfortable. Right.
Dianna Jaramillo: That's for sure.
Dominique Pozo: Yeah. Sometimes it is, sometimes it's great it's, you know,
Yeah.
Dominique Pozo: You know, we're constantly presented with challenges that are that move us in that space. So you're growing into that. And yet, if it's the first time you've been in this space and not used, it makes so much sense that all of this is coming up. Yeah.
Dianna Jaramillo: Yeah, I think so too.
Yeah.
Dianna Jaramillo: Yeah.
Dominique Pozo: So when you tell yourself you're
Dominique Pozo: Going to be okay. You're gonna be okay.
Dominique Pozo: What are the parts of you that believe that if you can imagine there's, you know, there's theories that we have all these different parts within and you know we've got young older pirates all these different things. So what are the
Dianna Jaramillo: Parts that believes
Dominique Pozo: What are they are quite
Dianna Jaramillo: Like
Dominique Pozo: What are they
Dominique Pozo: What's the description of them.
Dianna Jaramillo: There's
Dianna Jaramillo: I think I don't know, like a part of my
Dianna Jaramillo: Like my heart, my
Dianna Jaramillo: I don't know, it's
Dianna Jaramillo: Like all these different parts that do believe that you know that it is going to be okay. There's, it's like
Dianna Jaramillo: 75% of all of those parts believe that it's going to be okay.
Dianna Jaramillo: And then
Dianna Jaramillo: You know, but there. I don't think there's a single part of me that believes that 100% still
Dominique Pozo: Well, it sounds like the heart. It sounds like there's a lot of
Dominique Pozo: Truth in the heart, even though it may not be 100% and I want to stick with that because this is going to be like a place to return to it seems like the hard part is going to help to suit the parts that don't that aren't fully on board and
Dominique Pozo: Let's take a moment and if you're willing to just describe that hard part like tell me the qualities of that part of you. What is she like
Dianna Jaramillo: Strong and sensitive and
Dianna Jaramillo: loving and kind
Dianna Jaramillo: Vulnerable
Dianna Jaramillo: You know,
Dianna Jaramillo: Caring.
Dianna Jaramillo: And scared to death.
Dianna Jaramillo: To be broken and hurt.
Dominique Pozo: Who has her back who's got that heart parts back
Dianna Jaramillo: A little bit of my brain, probably a little bit of me. My mind my consciousness.
Dominique Pozo: And what's that part. Okay. Can you tell me a little bit about that.
Dianna Jaramillo: That's probably
Dianna Jaramillo: The part that is like the most
Dianna Jaramillo: I don't know.
Dianna Jaramillo: Strong but but week tour or confused.
Dianna Jaramillo: He knows pinelake
Dianna Jaramillo: Like
Dianna Jaramillo: The part that's like, Is it is it is it really going to be okay but also like has faith in that hurt per week there's there's faith there because I know in my mind in my consciousness. I know what my heart has been through what it's experienced and what it's capable of and
Dianna Jaramillo: how powerful it is
Dominique Pozo: So that consciousness is kind of like the witness. It's witnessed and it can draw on history to say hey I've got proof that you can pull through
Dianna Jaramillo: Yeah. Yeah, exactly.
Dominique Pozo: Well, it's really, I'm just having this thought in the moment, you know,
And
Dominique Pozo: I don't know what your sensitivity is. And please, just call me out if it's not appropriate. If you
Dominique Pozo: Like Jen using gender terms is
Dominique Pozo: Feminine, masculine or is that okay
Dianna Jaramillo: Yeah, that's fine.
Dominique Pozo: I'm just thinking, traditionally, you know, with our
Dominique Pozo: Energies and
Dominique Pozo: Using archetypes, there's, you know, there's the mother archetype, and it's typically it's coming from the heart. It's that warm place and then there's the father archetype, that usually is a little more rational and
Dianna Jaramillo: Right.
Dominique Pozo: You know, creates the structure and can think linearly with a timeline. And so as you
Dominique Pozo: Spoke about these two parts that seem to have the faith and know on some level, that to me seems like a father, an inner father, and then your heart part to me seems like an inner mother that you've cultivated and
Dominique Pozo: Really strong parts that
Dominique Pozo: Are, you know, a part of the whole with the rest of you.
Dominique Pozo: You know that, like there's some to really strong foundational parts of yourself to call upon or lean into, you know,
Dianna Jaramillo: Definitely, yeah. That makes a lot of sense. I like that.
Dianna Jaramillo: Yeah.
Dominique Pozo: Yeah so taken. He just took a deep breath and I think a part of you relax a little bit right there.
Dominique Pozo: Yeah. Oh.
Dominique Pozo: So let's just
Dominique Pozo: Acknowledging that you have these parts of you that are like pillars, you know,
Dominique Pozo: And
Dominique Pozo: And just take a few deep breaths to remember all the
Dominique Pozo: And it doesn't take away the struggle or the realness of everything, but it's just
Dominique Pozo: A reminder. Okay. When things when I get a little anxious or the the parts that are afraid start to come up to. Just remember, okay. Yes, I hear you. And here I am bringing those those two energies forward.
Yeah.
Dianna Jaramillo: Yeah.
Dominique Pozo: I'm just, I'm just kind of waiting to see where, you know, where should we go from here. What do you think
Yeah.
Dianna Jaramillo: I know it's
Dianna Jaramillo: It feels like so much when I think about it, or when I talk about it. It feels like just so overwhelming.
Dianna Jaramillo: But
Dianna Jaramillo: I feel like instead of, instead of using
Dianna Jaramillo: These I've
Dianna Jaramillo: I've
Dianna Jaramillo: Over the last year, I've started to just kind of shove it down and not
Dianna Jaramillo: Talk about it and not deal with it and
You know,
Dianna Jaramillo: They haven't
Dianna Jaramillo: I haven't talked about really anything. I don't really talk about that kind of stuff with my boyfriend or anybody you know I've talked about it very little with my dad.
Dianna Jaramillo: Cuz there's there's stuff going on there too, with my dad, but we've always been really close, and he's always
Dianna Jaramillo: For the most part, he's always really been there for me and and been supportive of me.
Dianna Jaramillo: But
Dianna Jaramillo: Except for this this last time that I i left because I was with my mom for we live together and we both worked and you know did supported the household together, um,
Dianna Jaramillo: But since I left her almost a year ago. I'm
Dianna Jaramillo: Like it felt like my dad completely, totally changed with me like he didn't. He didn't trust me or something. All of a sudden, or maybe he thought that I went back to using or I don't know what because my mom. I know my mom told him. God only knows what
Dianna Jaramillo: My mom told him, and
Dianna Jaramillo: I only ever saw him like once every
Dianna Jaramillo: Maybe two or three months as it was because he's, he is all over. He travels a lot and uh yeah he's all over the place. But no, I haven't seen him in in almost this whole years since I left my mom and we text and talk once in a while, but I'm
Dianna Jaramillo: Just actually just recently about, I don't know, maybe a few weeks, two or three weeks ago.
Dianna Jaramillo: I texted him.
Dianna Jaramillo: I forgot what it was, it was
Dianna Jaramillo: He's very, very non confrontational. And if he feels the slightest inkling of there's an issue there. He'll just
Dianna Jaramillo: tune it out. He just, you know, he won't
Dianna Jaramillo: Deal with it, you know.
Dianna Jaramillo: Usually I mean for big stuff you'll, you know, he will. But anyways, so he didn't text me back for that. And so a couple days later, those really bothering me. So a couple days later.
Dianna Jaramillo: We texted him and he told him, I don't know what my mom told you, or what you think is going on with me but
Dianna Jaramillo: You know we are things are hard right now because I'm not working, but I'm not using there's no anything. There's no drugs, no alcohol. Nothing at all. And so I just need you to know that that just because I'm not living with her doesn't mean I'm just a piece of crap. Now,
Dominique Pozo: Yeah.
Dianna Jaramillo: And yeah. And then, and he really actually seem to respond well to that I was really surprised and
Dianna Jaramillo: You know, he was like he texted me back right away. And he was like, We need to talk. And, you know, we need to communicate more and and discuss some of this stuff because
Dianna Jaramillo: You know i i don't know what's going on with you, but I believe you. I trust you know and so I mean that that was really nice. And then
Dianna Jaramillo: You know, he helped me out a little bit with with a phone card for my phone. And so that was really nice.
Dianna Jaramillo: And
Dianna Jaramillo: You know, it showed me a lot actually from him. So, I mean, I'm really thankful that I still have that that person. My dad, you know, because we have always been so close. I'm still really thankful that I help him.
Dianna Jaramillo: And and i don't know if he talks to my mom like talks to my mom about me because they're really close. They were better off. They were meant to be friends. You know, so they they stayed really close after they work together anymore. For the last
Dianna Jaramillo: You know 20 something years they've been they've been really good friends. So, I mean, it was always nice for me. I didn't have parents that were constantly fighting and
Dianna Jaramillo: You know, harassing each other, anything
Dianna Jaramillo: So I don't know if he talks to her about me or anything like that. But honestly, I feel like that's, that's one of the bigger issues for me is the whole thing with my mom. I can't even talk about it, you know.
Dominique Pozo: Well, I really get the sense that I correct me if I'm wrong, but I sense that you feel abandoned by her
Talk.
Dominique Pozo: Happy to.
Dominique Pozo: Hear that your dad actually
Dianna Jaramillo: Showed up and
Dominique Pozo: You know, it didn't happen on both ends because that's a huge
Dianna Jaramillo: Him. Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Dominique Pozo: How old we are
Dominique Pozo: Yeah, parents and to be, you know, pushed away dismissed and not acknowledged by a parent is a it's
Dianna Jaramillo: Yeah, really, really huge. I don't. And just, I mean not talking to my dad as much. You're seeing him at all. This last year. It's really lonely, like I have felt really really alone.
Dianna Jaramillo: Because of them, you know, because just not having them in my life the way I did before.
Dianna Jaramillo: And I, and I have been, I've been really like
Dominique Pozo: How, how long ago did you have that exchange exchange with your
Dianna Jaramillo: Was that that last time was just
Dianna Jaramillo: About a week ago, I would say.
Dominique Pozo: Oh, great. Okay. And have you have you made any effort to communicate more. So can we go out to lunch or can you come to me because you don't
Dominique Pozo: Have yeah we're having fun.
Dianna Jaramillo: Yeah, I brought the I brought that up and and
Dianna Jaramillo: I told him you know we should get together, we should we should have dinner together, something like that. And he's always he's always like, Yeah, you know, definitely. That sounds great but then there's no follow through with on his part when they
Dianna Jaramillo: When they bring it up. It's like, you know, he's
Dianna Jaramillo: Not in town or he's busy or and I know that's true like he's always busy and he is. He's all over. He has a house and he has three different houses in three different states. You know, so he has a whole new family.
Dianna Jaramillo: And all of that. So I know he's busy a lot but
Dianna Jaramillo: It's
Dianna Jaramillo: It's, I know it's kind of, I just kind of accept, accept is like I feel like as long as we're talking and I can still have a conversation on the phone with him that that's pedophiles good enough for now.
Dominique Pozo: Is there something in the way of you you taking the initiative and saying, I want to go have dinner with you on say Tuesday night.
Dominique Pozo: Instead,
Dominique Pozo: Of something like that. Is that possible, or is there some what's keeping you from doing
Dianna Jaramillo: It feels like there is, it feels like there is something keeping me
Dianna Jaramillo: I'm I don't know what it is. I'm not really sure, because I've even said it and thought about it, that if he saw me. You know, he would know immediately that
Dianna Jaramillo: I'm good. I'm healthy. I'm not, you know, doing anything I shouldn't be doing. So I don't know what it is. But yeah, there's, there is there's something from me pushing, pushing it to that to the next step and
Dianna Jaramillo: You know, actually, you know,
Dominique Pozo: It could not be it, although I wonder is there fear of experiencing rejection, on some level that you don't. It's like that would be too much, or is that not
Dianna Jaramillo: Yeah, that's
Dianna Jaramillo: That's definitely part of it. I don't
Dianna Jaramillo: I mean, not, not, that's not the biggest part. But yeah, that's definitely in there.
Dianna Jaramillo: There's a sprinkle of that for sure.
Dominique Pozo: About your partner, do you think your dad would like not necessarily approve. But do you think that he would be happy for you if you met your partner.
Dianna Jaramillo: He yeah i think i think he would totally like him. I think they would really like each other.
Dianna Jaramillo: You know he's he's never been real Georgie with like my my past relationships and stuff. He was never like
Dianna Jaramillo: Oh, he's horrible, you need to get the hell away from him or, you know, or really liked somebody where they were spending time together without me. You know, it was never
Dianna Jaramillo: He was never he was always kind of like whatever, as long as, as long as you're okay and you know you're you're happy and
Dianna Jaramillo: That's fine. You know, so, but I think, actually, I think they would actually really like each other.
Dominique Pozo: You don't sounds like a very independent character. And I'm wondering
Dominique Pozo: Yeah, well, the dynamic and how
Dominique Pozo: Your little girl might be coming through, like, you know, oh, am I important enough. Does he have time. Who does he want to me.
Dianna Jaramillo: Right.
Dominique Pozo: Like all these things.
Dianna Jaramillo: Yeah. Yeah, exactly.
Dianna Jaramillo: Yeah, so maybe the rejection part is is a little bit bigger of a part because I felt I felt like I mean honestly I just started know without actually trying that if I was to say, you know, let's get together, whatever Tuesday night.
Dianna Jaramillo: At six I'll meet you at so and so or whatever.
Dianna Jaramillo: That he would be like, Oh, well, I'm leaving town or, you know, I can't. That night, for whatever reason, and and that that rejection that would be rejection and that would really suck about what hurt.
Dominique Pozo: What could be another way that you could propose to to actually have a plant make a plan and and a commitment to it that might avoid some rejection, what, how can you think to do that. I have some ideas, but I want it to come from you.
Dianna Jaramillo: I don't know, probably
Dianna Jaramillo: Ask him, you know, to
Dianna Jaramillo: To
Dianna Jaramillo: Make
Dianna Jaramillo: Make a timer asked him, you know, like, what, what night. Is he free
Dianna Jaramillo: And let it you know sort of come from him come out of him and
Dianna Jaramillo: You know, I guess maybe
Dominique Pozo: Yeah, that's what that's what I'm thinking. And you know it's it's less vulnerable to to to put out an actual day and time in here. No, I can't do that and
Dominique Pozo: It's open ended to say something like, hey, I really want to see you, that this means a lot to me and
Dominique Pozo: That if we don't set a day or time it doesn't happen. So will you let me know what they are times work for you because I really wanted
Dominique Pozo: Yeah, something like this.
Dianna Jaramillo: Right. Yeah. Yeah. I mean, I'm, I'm totally willing to do that, you know, I mean I think another part of
Dianna Jaramillo: His, His deal. I'm not being is as close to me minus, you know, whatever. My mom has told him, but his wife.
Dominique Pozo: Right. I remember her and my
Dianna Jaramillo: Yeah, she you know they've been married for, you know,
Dianna Jaramillo: I don't know, probably almost 20 years now.
Dianna Jaramillo: Because they've got together when I was really, really young and
Dianna Jaramillo: She never liked me. She just never liked you know she never made an effort to
Dianna Jaramillo: Get to know me or to get close to me. The only time I ever actually had any kind of conversation with her or spent any time around her.
Dianna Jaramillo: Was when I was way up here. I was doing so good. I was getting awards from the state, you know, I was having frickin Congress, Congressman, give me you know awards and
Dianna Jaramillo: For the work that I was doing with with the addiction community, the addiction recovery community and they got the only time that she ever sort of had anything to do with
Dianna Jaramillo: After before that and and after that it's i have i know that she has had a really huge.
Dianna Jaramillo: Like control.
Dianna Jaramillo: Over the employees, my dad's decisions you know and and so, you know, that's a big part of it too. I know that that's that's a big part of it that he doesn't. He's not as
Dianna Jaramillo: Close with me or you know doesn't see me more or whatever. I know, I know for a fact that it's it's partially because of her
Dominique Pozo: Yeah yeah
Dominique Pozo: Yeah. Wow, that's tough for him and i i was thinking of her as well.
Dianna Jaramillo: What
Dominique Pozo: You know, why isn't he more available and recognizing right said he has a whole other family and
Dominique Pozo: She hasn't been willing to get to know you yet. Right.
Dianna Jaramillo: Yeah. After 20 years you know
Dianna Jaramillo: So, so that's kind of like, whatever. And I even told told my dad in the past to that, if that's fine. She doesn't you know if she doesn't want to know me, or whatever.
Dianna Jaramillo: That's totally fine with me. She's not my family, I would have been, I would have made her my family. Totally. You know if she would have put an in an effort, a little bit of an effort, but she didn't. And so she's you know she's not my family. She's nothing to me.
Dianna Jaramillo: You know, but but I told him, you know, I'm not going to give you any shit about it or make you feel
Dianna Jaramillo: Bad that are and you know anything about it. I just know that you're my dad and they need you and they need you in my life, you know, and
Dianna Jaramillo: And that was that, you know, and he just sort of took it for what it was and
Dianna Jaramillo: Kind of left it left it at that. I don't think he ever talked to her told her anything about
Dianna Jaramillo: How she treated me or anything like that.
Dianna Jaramillo: You know,
Dominique Pozo: Yeah.
Dominique Pozo: I keep getting this hit. I don't know if you're up for it or if it feels like where you want to go with the session, but
Dominique Pozo: To bring some art supplies out because you've really shared a lot. I want to let like you kind of drop with it a little bit through some art making unless there's more that that
Dianna Jaramillo: No. Yeah.
Dominique Pozo: Yeah. Does that sound good.
Dianna Jaramillo: Yeah, that sounds awesome.
Dominique Pozo: Okay, great. Let me. I want to stick with everything you've shared, I just want to give it some attention from a different part of your brain.
Dianna Jaramillo: Yeah, definitely. I know that sounds good to me. I don't really have much but but paper and pens. Perfect.
Dominique Pozo: So do. Do you have them near you.
Dianna Jaramillo: Yeah, right here.
Dominique Pozo: So I was having the idea of a few things came to my mind one I was really struck when you said you've been you've been feeling very lonely. This past year, that really touched me to that and then
Dominique Pozo: You know, in the way that your mom has been
You know,
Dominique Pozo: Really not responding to you in the way that you would wish and that feels, you know, really needed and then your dad to a point like he's responding to a point.
Dominique Pozo: So,
Dominique Pozo: So, considering that there's this lonely part of you. And then these two, you know, very significant figures mother and father who are only getting so close.
Dominique Pozo: Okay, if you're willing to draw the lonely part of you in the center of the paper.
Dominique Pozo: Whatever just market for now with some shape or symbol or something, whatever feels appropriate for that lonely part
Dianna Jaramillo: OK.
Dominique Pozo: OK, and then using the rest of the paper. If you can just put how close is your dad to you and what's the proximity of your mom. So just so you can get a visual. It's like a constellation is what this is. So there's
Dominique Pozo: I really like using the metaphor of a constellation, because there are points in the sky and there's distances and they're pretty steady yet with humans are constellations are con they're moving all the time. So right now what is the constellation look like
And then
Dominique Pozo: In the space between you and your mother and the space between you and your father for the time being, until something shifts. What can you do to sue that space, like what things could you fill that space with that would feel really nurturing and good for you.
Dominique Pozo: And you can draw them. You can write them.
Dominique Pozo: Whatever think would you think would be
Dominique Pozo: Like for you to make it a little easier because it's painful.
Dianna Jaramillo: Okay.
Dianna Jaramillo: And then just take a moment.
Dominique Pozo: Take a moment and and look at your image. And just what do you see when you look at that. What, what comes up for you.
Dianna Jaramillo: Sad.
Dianna Jaramillo: There was a could make it better.
Dominique Pozo: Yeah, and I, I don't want to rush through the grief of it too fast. And I also don't want you to get like voice text in it. So I'm, I'm actually in this moment thinking okay
Dominique Pozo: Do we give us more space and just let it be, or do I invite her to think about some action, she can take to move out of this sad space. What feels. What does your spirit really need because grief is not a bad thing. It's just I think when we get like frozen in it, then it's
Dominique Pozo: A great problem, but it's actually quite healing. So, what, what do you think you most need to feel the grief of this
Dianna Jaramillo: Probably because I haven't, I haven't, haven't let myself feel feel it at all, just like I said earlier, it's sort of just like pushed it down over and over and over and just kind of blocked it and and I haven't talked about it. I haven't
Dianna Jaramillo: You know, dealt with it all.
Dianna Jaramillo: So I need to feel it a thing I need to just feel it, even though that's scary is how
Dominique Pozo: I just moved outside. I'm not sure why it froze up but I'm
Dominique Pozo: Gonna get the best internet
Dominique Pozo: Signal possible
Dianna Jaramillo: Oh yeah okay that's. I was wondering, I figured it just froze for a second.
Dominique Pozo: I'm actually glad it gave you, maybe a moment to just be without me asking you. More questions.
Dianna Jaramillo: But
Dominique Pozo: I what I was wondering is, I'm
Dominique Pozo: Wanting to be a really kind of delicate because it's such a fine balance of not taking you out of the grief because
Dominique Pozo: In the past, you know, it sounds to me that you used to cover up the sadness and not feel that. So there I think there's some benefit and like
Dominique Pozo: Just metabolized in and digesting the grief of, you know, if the distance that you've been experiencing with your mother and father, and then at the same time, you know i i don't want you to get stuck there and frozen.
Dianna Jaramillo: Right. Great.
Dianna Jaramillo: We're that's
Dianna Jaramillo: Well, that's what I was saying was, like, it'll
Dianna Jaramillo: I do feel like I need to feel it, because that's the only way I'm going to process it because I haven't felt it mostly I've stayed on.
Dianna Jaramillo: Like, try to kind of hold on more to anger.
Dianna Jaramillo: And and
Dianna Jaramillo: You know, in an older the those kind of more, you know, darker emotions to sort of help me get through this last year.
Dianna Jaramillo: And, you know, like, Well, what the hell you know like if she doesn't want me. She doesn't want me in her life, then you know she could kiss my ass but but i don't i don't really believe that, you know, it's just, I'm just kind of keeping up
Dianna Jaramillo: To protect me or whatever. And so, feeling it is really scary. Like I'm I'm scared. If I feel it that it'll just wait. They could kill me or something.
Yeah.
Dianna Jaramillo: I'm scared to feel it but
Dianna Jaramillo: I don't want to
Dianna Jaramillo: Because everybody even tells me like
Dianna Jaramillo: Things about her like
Dianna Jaramillo: You know, like I can't believe she's doing that I could I could never imagine doing that to my own kids. No matter what they did, like my mom sister. She has two twin sisters
Dianna Jaramillo: And
Dianna Jaramillo: And I stayed, I guess, you know, kinda. I was never really close with anybody, and neither side of the family, but, um, they have really tried to keep in touch with me and keep in communication with me and you know make sure that I'm okay, I guess.
Dianna Jaramillo: So they call me, you know, probably once a week or so and then they tell me, stuff like that, you know, like, I don't, I can't understand her and that's their sister.
Dianna Jaramillo: They know her, you know, they know her very well and they tell me what, what the hell is she thinking, Why is she doing this. Why, because I texted my mom several times. I tried to call her once she didn't answer you know i mean i i tried to
Dianna Jaramillo: Reach out to her.
Dianna Jaramillo: She just ignores everything she doesn't text me back. She doesn't anything at all. You know, and, and my Auntie's are like
Dianna Jaramillo: You know i i don't care. You know what they do, what my kids did I cannot ever imagine doing something like that to them and that that kind of stuff.
Dianna Jaramillo: You know, really makes me think, because the only mother daughter relationship. I know is the one I have with my mother. That's what I know that's that mother relationship.
Dianna Jaramillo: Is all I know for that kind of relationship how she treated me how she raised me you know how she brought me up how she loved me so, so, so much.
Dianna Jaramillo: You know, so many times throughout my life. And then how she could just turn on me so many times to is so freaking confusing.
Dianna Jaramillo: It doesn't make any sense. Like, how could you love me.
Dianna Jaramillo: So much and you know be there for me so many times. Was it just, I feel like it was just because I was living with her like that's the only reason she was there for me.
Dianna Jaramillo: Or love to me or cared for me so much because the times that I haven't been with her. She thinks I'm out there doing God knows what. I don't know, you know,
Dianna Jaramillo: I caused that I used. I, I, you know, I was a mess for so many years, and
Dianna Jaramillo: And now, ever since then, even though I've been, you know, up until this one last
Dianna Jaramillo: Relapse I guess it was I was I was totally clean for eight years before that, you know, and there was. There's no reason
Dianna Jaramillo: I don't I it's just so hard for me to, to understand why. How could she loves me so much.
Dianna Jaramillo: And then hate me so much so many, so many different periods of my life.
Dominique Pozo: I you know I'm
Dominique Pozo: Having the spot right now.
Dianna Jaramillo: That the
Dominique Pozo: Time that you actually don't have a vehicle.
Dianna Jaramillo: Even though distract yourself.
Dominique Pozo: The world and engage with it and you don't have a job. It's actually a question time where you can tend to some of these deep things. And I'm wondering if this this next week. You can take the time and write her a letter.
Dominique Pozo: Right along letter and
Dominique Pozo: And really, you know, get the things out. You want to get. And because he brought the client, you can really crafted and edit it and say, it just the way you want to say it.
Dianna Jaramillo: That's what I wrote down right here. I wrote that on my picture write a letter.
Dominique Pozo: Good. Awesome. Yeah. Great, we're on the same page, I think, you know, there's so much and it's very confusing and I think
Dominique Pozo: You know, I, I'm actually wondering, without knowing your mom at all. You know, I'm wondering on her end what's going on for her because this is pretty
Dominique Pozo: Confusing behavior. And who knows what's going on for her. Who knows what traumas are getting resurrected for her. What fears. I'm not validating what she's doing at all, but I'm just thinking
Dianna Jaramillo: It's true.
Dominique Pozo: He's having her own experience, and I'm sure she's hurting if if you know if you experience so much love from her as a child. It must, on some level, I don't. I almost don't want to say this because I don't know if it's true but
Dominique Pozo: I
Dominique Pozo: You know her heart is aching
Dominique Pozo: It is way as well.
Dianna Jaramillo: I know it is. I know that is
Dianna Jaramillo: That's, that's another part that so confusing. You know, like I i know that she's really hurt.
Dianna Jaramillo: Not having me me not being there living in the same house you know as having the same kind of relationship at all that we did it just everything completely changed overnight.
Dianna Jaramillo: And I know that it's hurting her. I know that she's really suffered with it. I know she has this last year, you know,
Dianna Jaramillo: And, but, but, and you're totally right. She is having her own experience. And she's got other stuff. There's, you know, mental health issues in that whole entire side of the family. I made my grandma had seven daughters. By the time she was 19 years old.
Dianna Jaramillo: Yeah, she started, she was, she was married to my grandpa 12 years old.
Dianna Jaramillo: He was 18 she had her first daughter at 13
Dianna Jaramillo: You know, so there was one after another after another and then twins at the end and
Dianna Jaramillo: You know, all she did was beat the shit out of them for their whole entire life. She beat them and beat them and beat up. That's all they grew up. So it's like, I understand that part. You know, it's no wonder
Dianna Jaramillo: That things are the way they are with her and always have been. It's no wonder it doesn't shock me that she treats me this way.
Dianna Jaramillo: You know, it's
Dianna Jaramillo: It sucks that she could just be
Dianna Jaramillo: So amazing and wonderful and raised me with so much love. But the second I make a mistake when I was like 12 years old she completely turned on me and flipped out on me, you know, and that was the first time I was 12
Dianna Jaramillo: When she did that and then again when I was like 15 and then again when I was like 19 or whatever it was, you know, there was like she's done this multiple times. And it's only when i right there.
Dianna Jaramillo: Where she can visually you know she sees me and she can see me and have eyes on me and hear me, that's the only time that there was ever that kind of
Dianna Jaramillo: You know, love and make
Dianna Jaramillo: Trust.
Dominique Pozo: Yeah. So she comes from a history of abuse.
Dianna Jaramillo: I had serious abuse.
Dominique Pozo: And mental, you know, mental challenges so
Dominique Pozo: Yeah, there's a bigger picture here for sure that I think of letters a good start. And I keep getting a hit to play this, this little blurb. It's a section of a talk for you by a man who actually lives out in New Mexico name to my team practice. Have you ever heard of him.
Dianna Jaramillo: I don't think so. No.
Dominique Pozo: So he he actually wrote many books in one book The beautiful book called and and grief and praise and he with the
Dominique Pozo: These Indians and what the mama called the tutors, you
Dominique Pozo: Mayans and he he
Dominique Pozo: He lived on for years and and in their culture grief is celebrated. It's like this is a natural part of life and they have you know they they weave it no shame and it's done very openly and
Dominique Pozo: And I just, are you, are you willing to hear something for a few minutes.
Dominique Pozo: Absolutely. Okay.
Dominique Pozo: He's great. And he's been through it. I mean, he was he was
Dominique Pozo: A political prisoner at one point they were chasing him. He was on the run. He was like, fleeing for life and what the mall. So he's been in
Dominique Pozo: And watched many of his die.
Dominique Pozo: So let's see on ado I'm going to do these two that are in total of about five minutes, and we've got
Dianna Jaramillo: Time. So, okay, cool.
Dominique Pozo: So what
Dominique Pozo: Is being here. So why you're here, you have to make life so he has to praise life all the time. Oh gosh, I'm playing it for myself. I didn't share it with you.
Dianna Jaramillo: Know, I could I could hear it, though.
Dianna Jaramillo: I was hearing it. Good.
Dominique Pozo: Yeah, that's
Dominique Pozo: Me. Okay, I'm gonna still i'm going to share it. Maybe that's well that's interesting that you could hear it.
Yeah.
Dianna Jaramillo: Oh, there it goes.
Dominique Pozo: Okay, here we go.
Yeah.
Dianna Jaramillo: So what's beautiful about life is being
Dominique Pozo: Here. So while you're here, you have to make life, life. So he has to praise life all the time and grieving is part of tracing of life, and this will make the spirit fat and which makes them happy.
Dianna Jaramillo: To be full effect.
For live this fat praising grief. All of this expression, but it's not for its own sake. And when I say grief. I don't think people should sit around. We've been on time, Tom.
And I'm talking about being happy with the glue on smiling say so time
Dianna Jaramillo: And talking about doing in a way so that the village holds the people up where they're going through it like we have some people in this room. We have a lot of people in this room got heavy grease this very moment.
This very moment and. Well, I mean, we all have it, but some guy little morning every
Morning, they asked for.
And they can't afford to break down.
Dianna Jaramillo: But this has to break
Or what's going to happen, their grandchildren going to inherit it in the form of some kind of repression or a disease so often you go to a shaman in the village someone makes divination and new countries.
Solidified sorrow is the tumor.
Is called petrified sorrow. If you really translate exactly what it means to be sure. So the sadness turned into a stone, it's not liquid anymore.
It's not liquid makes illness concern over the place, I myself like this.
Everybody subject to it when I first live in Guatemala and I leave this place the killer 1800 of us was six years, our village alone.
All right. People say, Don't you want to go back. Yeah, I want to go back to what was there, but I'm gonna go back to the big pile of dead people in the gras remember my friend was shrapnel in them.
Pay with american tax dollar
One. What am I supposed to hate Americans.
The Americans.
Americans. Well, I hate was the fact it is people didn't get to be grief because everybody else had to be a neuron when there was being killed. That's where wars are so terrible because don't have time to grieve. That's where someone to hang himself.
killed themselves during worse.
It's not good.
It's not good, so that the village is there to make big circle around the people either metaphorically or literally
And they just make sure they don't want their heads.
And of course the people are watching Pretty soon get into it too because they got a lot of things to do to I forgot about what's his name or they start remembering about their child that died guy. Last one between my two boys.
Dianna Jaramillo: Yeah, so when I came up here during the war. I came up here, you know, had to be like, you know, really so much had to watch my backside at $5,000 price in my head of trying to kill my children, my wife, everything is taken from me frozen.
I had to watch everything to watch the law here because the immigration everything finally got it all straightened out but I'm still like this.
You know, it's like, you know, one of those little deer know watching out for the
Dianna Jaramillo: New Hampton.
My whole body spying to
My whole this side of my body went under my armpit and asked to sit in my hairline white
And I had to be carried around newburgh and fix it. That take me to shamans and acupuncturist and surgeons and doctors did you remember so campaign on a remember constant, constant pain.
Constant pain. I was telling about myself. And then what happened.
To sky tan from Guatemala. This is, I was in New Mexico because from my village. So great someone from the village game.
I went to go see him or hear sold out to one of the right wing groups and it came up to me and he says, you know, it's good to see you again. Martin are talking in mind and all this stuff and he says you know I sold out to the right wing groups.
I didn't say that. But he said, part of that. And if you come down. I will kill you on the spot right between. I like that.
I was horrified.
And talk like friends here and I go to village gonna kill me.
Well, what happened to me this mended me the biggest favor. Anybody ever did in my whole life. He didn't know it.
And I'm kicking next time I see him or send the other workers. Somebody already kill him.
But what happened.
So at home and I wept and wept.
And wept and wept. There wasn't a dry spine, New Mexico.
Honest to God and I drink more water to meet and we and we and we and we and we whip and I was very lucky because I had some industry level with me. My people refuges like us.
Who could stand around me and allow me to do that but have been this kingpin all that time and slowly but surely my body and twist to some degree.
I still carry a huge
Huge
Dominique Pozo: Huge map race for the Journal of the grief enemies that so I know from personal experience how this thing can make you sick. Not just like and inspire everybody knows if you don't cry. Don't you gotta cry when you feel I have been talking about long range. So let me stop there.
To that
Dominique Pozo: Is that useful for you in any way.
Dianna Jaramillo: Yeah, totally. Definitely.
Dianna Jaramillo: Well, was. Wow, that's amazing.
Dianna Jaramillo: What's his name. I wouldn't, I would like to listen to those. Those are really good.
Dominique Pozo: Oh, he's so great. His name is Martine prep. Tell me, and I'm going to pull up a on
Dominique Pozo: I'll pull an image. He wrote this great. Well, he wrote a book on grief and praise, but he wrote another great book called secrets of the talking Jaguar.
Dominique Pozo: That's wonderful. Let me see. Let's see.
Dominique Pozo: And he's he's just, um,
You see,
Dominique Pozo: Praise he's just outside of Mexico. I mean, Santa Fe in a hookah.
Dianna Jaramillo: Oh yeah, yeah, that's just right there.
Dominique Pozo: Let's see.
Dominique Pozo: Okay, here we go. Let me. I'm going to share this with you now.
Dominique Pozo: I just, I really love the way he normalizes
Dominique Pozo: Yeah, you know that we all have it. We all carry it and actually it's it can make us sick if we don't deal with it. Yep.
Dianna Jaramillo: I know, I know.
Dominique Pozo: Oh, the smell of rain on dust grief and praise and then his name. Here they go.
Dianna Jaramillo: Oh, cool. Okay.
Dominique Pozo: And he's an artist, too. He does all this artwork on his the covers of his books and
Dominique Pozo: Well he's um he's a really special human. Yeah.
Dianna Jaramillo: Sounds like it.
Yeah.
Dominique Pozo: So,
Dominique Pozo: We've got about a minute left. And I'm just going to invite you to, you know, take this week. And if you can write that letter.
Dominique Pozo: Write it and let yourself feel all this and if you need to have another session if you're like oh my gosh, I'm really spiraling deep. I don't know how to help myself just reach out
Dominique Pozo: Okay, and then
Dominique Pozo: And then if you want to look at your calendar. Let's, let's look at the calendar and we can
Dominique Pozo: See what works for when you would like another individual and when would be a good day in time.
Dianna Jaramillo: Okay. Like, how long are we still looking at every two weeks, then
Dominique Pozo: It's up to you. We could do weekly if you wish. Or we can do every two weeks, whatever you think you
Dominique Pozo: Will
Dominique Pozo: Need at this time and we can change it along the way.
Dominique Pozo: I'm not a very rigid
Dominique Pozo: In some ways, and
Dominique Pozo: As far as, you know, just healing process. There's, I don't really like to have it be so rigid. It's whatever what feels right for you right now.
Dominique Pozo: Oh, you're muted hold on your. I don't know how it got muted.
Dianna Jaramillo: Okay, got it. Okay.
Dominique Pozo: I didn't hear anything. You said
Dianna Jaramillo: Okay, I was just saying that, let's just shoot for two weeks and then, like you said, If you know if it gets too much or whatever I can always make contact.
Dominique Pozo: Okay, that sounds great.
Dominique Pozo: So what what day in the week. Let's look at the week of the ninth what day look little
Dianna Jaramillo: Little maybe
Dianna Jaramillo: So yeah, I think. I mean, right now, everything is still pretty free pretty open. Okay.
Dominique Pozo: Um, yeah.
Dominique Pozo: About
Dominique Pozo: How about noon your time on the 11th.
Dianna Jaramillo: Okay.
Dianna Jaramillo: Okay, then that's a Wednesday. Right. Yes. Yeah. Yeah. Oh, I'll write that down on the 11th.
Dominique Pozo: And I have it. All right. That's nine o'clock am my time. So I'm not going to mess up the times.
Dominique Pozo: In your time nine o'clock mine on Wednesday, the
11th 11
Dianna Jaramillo: Yep, got it.
Dominique Pozo: Okay, Diana, take
Dominique Pozo: Really good care of Stephen group and be very thank
Dianna Jaramillo: You
Dominique Pozo: You really like opened a lot today. So just
To
Dianna Jaramillo: Thank you so much. Dominique and and I'm sure glad you're back.
Dominique Pozo: We do.
Dianna Jaramillo: You have a great day.
Dominique Pozo: Okay. Bye bye.
Bye bye.